the bloody scenes of the Moscow attack
are reminiscent of what can be seen in a
computer game and cotton virtually
involves a character who is urged to
kill civilians in an imaginary airport
the aftermath of Monday's blast has
sparked hot debate as the stuff of a
fictional computer came became shocking
reality artis Lauren Lyster reports a
terrorist attack kills dozens of
innocent people and creates chaos at a
Moscow Airport fact or fiction it's the
scenario being played out here in this
popular American video game sold
worldwide call of duty modern warfare 2
dubbed no Russian in this mission the
player goes on a terrorist rampage
helping to Massacre civilians in a
fictitious Moscow Airport it may have
seemed to gruesome and tragic to become
true were not for the very real events
seen here at the Domodedovo Airport more
than 30 people have been killed more
than 180 injured in what investigators
believe was a terrorist attack committed
by a suicide bomber inside the
International Arrivals of Russia's
busiest airport as far as the video game
version a lot more people have been
involved in this violence the video game
was released in November of 2009 by the
American company Activision and in just
a few months sales had surpassed 1
billion dollars now even for people that
didn't download the game just a simple
youtube search where you type in no
Russian can reveal that segment right
here this one has eight hundred and
seventy thousand views now with so many
people seemingly downloading playing or
watching this game you have to consider
whether or not anybody ever thought that
this game could so closely resemble
reality indeed it's it's a trouble to
look at the game and then the reality
the issue is we need to know if
terrorists or extremists are using these
videos or these DVDs or these games to
basically apply the model there's a way
in which you know entertainment mirrors
reality and reality mirrors
entertainment
there are people who are influenced by
all this even though the manufacturers
always deny that it has any influence on
anyone denials aside some say games like
this can aid and abet reality I think
those who have been radicalized already
let's suppose in this case jihadis
al-qaeda or other kind they look at the
games and see that these games will
serve them to train as for the aftermath
Russian officials say domodedovo airport
will recover quite soon and a range of
public figures came out condemning the
attacks but so far no one is coming out
questioning justification for a virtual
version Lauren Lyster RT